[MUSIC]
>> Kyle: Now you notice that when
I call the getData function,
it has no return value.
So I'm technically yielding out undefined.
That doesn't cause a problem
here because we have the getData
wired specifically to call it.next.
But there's an implementation
change that we can make,
which is gonna reconfigure the way
all of this stuff is happening.
From the inside, it's gonna look exactly
the same, but what we can observe here,
which is actually kind of good that some
of these questions were being asked from
the chat.
Because what we can observe here is
we're still every bit as susceptible to
callback hell as we always were,
aren't we?
At least one of the things
of callback hell.
We have an inversion of control issue,
don't we?
Somebody can call it.next in a way
that we're not expecting and
screw everything up.
We still have an inversion
of control issue.
We've solved the non-local,
non-sequential reasonability issue.
But we have no solution
currently in this code base for
the inversion of control
callback hell issue.
So guess what we're gonna do?
We're gonna put promises
together with generators.
Promises are gonna solve our
inversion of control issue.
Solve our trust issue.
Solve our flow control control issue.
Generators are gonna solve our non-local,
non-sequential reasonability issue.
And the key recognition for this,
instead of yielding an undefined value,
we're going to wire this up so
that we are going to yield a promise.
Now I want you to think about this
conceptually before I show you
any code, look at me.
Inside of my code when I say yield and
I make an Ajax call,
if that Ajax call returns me a promise for
it, am I yielding out its promise?
Yes, so who's gonna get
the promise that I just yielded
out?
>> Kyle: Whoever is
driving my generator with
its it.next call, right?
So imagine there's some plumbing
somewhere which is gonna
be in a framework or a library.
But there's some plumbing
somewhere that says it.next, and
what it gets back is a promise.
So what's it gonna do with that promise?
It's gonna say promise.then it.next.
So here's how this works.
We yield out a promise,
pausing and then we say .then and
when the promise resolves,
we resume the generator.
And then we yield and
pause and then and resume and
yield and pause and then resume.
That's how we make that magic work.
That's how we wire promises
into the generator.
We yield out promises and then
the promises resume the generator and when
the promise has some value to pass along,
it passes it along to the it.next call.
So that plumbing, that circular
plumbing that I'm talking about.
You could write a utility to do that for
your generators.
It's about 25, 30 lines of code to handle
all the little nuances in error handling
and all that other stuff.
You could do it.
It's in my book, you can see the snippet
right there if you want to write your own.
But you shouldn't have to.
I want you to understand
the concept of what it's doing.
It's yielding out a promise and resuming
a generator and yielding out a promise.
I want you to understand that concept.
But it's not practical for each of
you to go invent your own driver for
these generators.
So you're gonna need one that's
built into a library and
it turns out asynquence has one,
Q has one, co has one.
I mean, all the major libraries,
they all have this,
cuz they all know that this is the most
important pattern to land in JavaScript
programming in a really long time.
So they all have these drivers,
mine's called runner.
As you see on line 8, he passed
the generator to the runner method.
And it automatically knows that
if you yield out a sequence or
yield out a promise, it automatically
knows to wait for that and
then resume and then wait for
it and then resume.
>> Kyle: The main point of this slide is
to illustrate that the value of
asynquence is that a generator driving,
like we're talking about,
is really just a step in a sequence.
So I can put it right in the middle of
another sequence if I really needed to.
That's why on line 16 I have another step
in my sequence that only fires after
the generator is fully completed.
So once you wrap your head around
the abstraction that asynquence provides,
the sequence abstraction.
Every single step in your sequence
becomes whatever you want it to be.
Whether it's a generator run, or
a promise, or a reactive sequence or
whatever.
>> Kyle: This is why generators are so
powerful.
Yeah, should have a few of those,
[SOUND] what?
This is why generators are so powerful
cuz they completely change the game for
how we write our asynchronous code.
Remember what I said at the very beginning
of our workshop last time we were
together?
I said we're not talking about
introducing new functionality,
we're talking about introducing
new expressivity, why?
Because bugs happen when your brain
doesn't work like the code that you're
writing.
So we're trying to come
up with a pattern for
writing code that works more
closely like our brains work.
Do you see why this is so much better than
the callback hell that we've talked about
or even the promise chains or
the thunk nesting or whatever?
This is so much better because it
works the way our brains work.
And because we weave in promises,
we get all the trustability
the lack of inversion of control,
all that stuff's fixed.
So we put those two together and we get,
finally, a solution a callback hell.
>> Kyle: Now, this pattern is so
important that they've already advanced
a proposal that's a virtual certainty.
They've advanced a proposal for
the next version of JavaScript to create
another new type of function,
called an async function.
That does exactly what I just showed you,
but
without any library needing to drive it.
Here's what it's gonna look like.
>> Kyle: Instead of
having something like ASQ().runner,
and passing in your generator,
and then doing a bunch of yield
ajax(..) calls like that.
That's what works now cuz you have
a library that will do all the plumbing
for you.
This new proposal says,
take out the library,
just make an asynchronous function,
>> Kyle: Like call it foo, for example.
And just call foo.
And now we use await instead of yield.
Anybody in here have experience with C#?
C# programmers, if you're listening in,
you'll recognize the async await.
This is exactly async await from C#.
We're codifying it into JavaScript.
So it's exactly that pattern that I talked
about, about yielding a promise out, and
resuming the generator.
That old conceptual model
that we just talked about.
But now, we don't even need a library, we
can just express it directly with syntax.
>> Kyle: I'm 100% convinced,
this is the new baseline for
understanding how to write
asynchronous code in JavaScript.
This is where we all have to get to.
I said the last time we were together.
You don't get anything
else out of the workshop,
you gotta get to this point
cuz it's the new baseline.
It's the new level of competency that we
all have to wrap our brains around and
is it gonna come like that overnight?
No, it's gonna take some practice and
some work.
But it's just so much better, it's so
game changing compared to what
we've been doing all along.
But the value,
I hope the value is evident,
the value should be clearly worth it.
>> Kyle: Yes?
>> Speaker 2: They're asking about
the quality and
speed of generators in transpiled code,
>> Kyle: [LAUGH]
>> Speaker 2: Is it really slow?
>> Kyle: [LAUGH] Transpiled code is not
great code.
But transpiled code is no worse and
often better than all
the really crappy code
that you've been writing for 20 years.
So is the transpiled code good?
It's not as good as ES6, but it's probably
at least as good, if not much better,
than the stuff that you
would have written yourself.
>> Speaker 3: Is there a polyfill for
async in await?
>> Kyle: These are syntax, so
they're not polyfill, they're transpiled.
Babel does support ES7 async await.
>> Kyle: Just as a quick side note.
I like the async await syntax.
I like the non-library version of this.
Because any time we can do something
natively without a library.
Yay, that's awesome.
But there are some caveats that you
should be aware of with async functions
that are not true of generators.
So it's not just syntactic sugar.
One of the major things, you member we
talked about cancelable promises earlier,
and I said I'm not a big fan of them?
Here's where they come from because
we're gonna make async functions,
foo, when we call an async function,
it's gonna return us a promise that lets
us know when that function finishes.
An async function produces a promise that
gets resolved when the async function
finishes, right?
But here's the problem,
what if that async function is running and
then some other external
influence says I need to abort.
I need to cancel whatever it's doing.
Maybe the asynch function is making some
really resource intensive long running
Ajax call and downloading lots of records
and something else happens in your
application and
you don't want that to happen any more.
From the outside world,
how do you cancel a running async
function?
>> Kyle: The answer is you can't.
There is no cancel method on
a running async function.
So you know what they want to do?
They wanna make the promise that
comes back from an async function,
a cancellable promise so
that you can cancel the promise.
And that will send the cancellation
message magically into the async function.
This is an unbelievably, ridiculously,
stupid idea, in my opinion.
They ought to have async functions return
something else that lets you control it
and listen to the promise.
I think it's a terrible idea
what they've come up with but
that's what's almost
certainly gonna happen.
Generators don't suffer that problem
cuz generators don't return promises,
generators return iterators.
Iterators give you control.
I showed you the .next but
there's also a .return which will
abort a generator in mid run.
And there's a .throw, which can manually
send an error into a generator.
So generators give you more control from
the outside than async functions do.
It is for that reason,
personally, I'm probably gonna keep
using generators most of the time.
Every once in a while if there's a really
lightweight asynchronous process that I
don't care about any external control,
I'll probably use an async function.
But most of the time I'm probably
gonna keep using generators.
>> Kyle: It's my own take because I don't
think cancellation is an important thing,
a lot of times.
And I don't think this design has
properly taken that into account.
So that's my own little personal take on
it but to circle back to what we've been
talking about with asynquence.
>> Kyle: I showed you that
you could pass in a generator.
Guess what,
you can also pass in an async function.
So if you did want to change, you can
do that if you want, it's totally fine.
Asynquence knows how to handle an
asynchronous function just like it knows
how to handle a generator.